---
layout: post
title: How to Get a 5 on AP US History
description: Tips, tricks, resources, and the exact study plan that got me an A+ and a 5 on APUSH freshman year
image: "/assets/img/                  "

categories:
- Education
- AP Classes

date: 2025-7-7 08:00 -0500


# If you are seeing this before scores drop: good luck, you got this. WE are getting 5s
---

# How to Get a 5 on AP US History

I took APUSH my freshman year, and it was the first AP exam I took. I was pretty nervous before my first day of class, but by the time May 9th rolled around, I was confident that I was going to do great on the exam. I could complete the multiple choice section in 15 minutes with 90%+ accuracy, and I'd learned how to effectively answer all of the writing questions.

If you're in the same scenario that I was in the beginning of the year, and want to crush it on the APUSH exam, you're in the right place. Here's how I got an A+ in the class and a 5 on the exam, broken down step-by-step.

## General Tips
These tips can apply to any class, but are especially important for APUSH.

### Actually Pay Attention
I cannot emphasize this enough. Even when class seems boring and you're falling asleep (I had it bright and early at 7:30am), pay attention. It's a tip that seems so simple and not worth mentioning, but you would be surprised how many people I saw scrolling on their phones or falling asleep just days before unit exams or our midterm. If you pay attention and are engaged in the class, you will do better. In addition, your teacher will like you more, giving you a better chance at getting a grade rounded up. (not that you'll need that with this guide)

### Do the Textbook Readings
For my class, we had (roughly) weekly textbook readings. They would be 30-60 pages from Henretta's America's History, and we would have 10-12 specific questions to take notes on. We could use these on weekly chapter quizzes. I know a lot of people who used ChatGPT or SnapChat AI to take their notes for them, and would be stressing to write notes down the class before their APUSH class. Don't be that person. If you take the notes, you'll remember things better for your unit exams and the AP exam.

### third tip idk


## Understanding the Course & Exam
### Units of Study
The course is broken up into 9 units. I would recommend learning the general timeframe of each unit. Tieing events to units in your mind will help make sure you don't accidentally say Brown v. Board was in 1850 and Manifest Destiny was in 1950 during a LEQ. I had this exact list on a post-it note in my room, and would look at it every day to help remember dates.

**Unit 1:** Pre-Columbian America (1491 - 1607)

**Unit 2:** European Colonization (1607 - 1754)

**Unit 3:** The American Revolution (1754 - 1800)

**Unit 4:** Building a New Nation (1800 - 1848)

**Unit 5:** The Civil War (1844 - 1877)

**Unit 6:** The Gilded Age & Industrialization (1865 - 1898)

**Unit 7:** World Wars, Imperialism, & Progressivism (1890 - 1945)

**Unit 8:** The Cold War, Communism, & Civil Rights (1945 - 1980)

**Unit 9:** Reagan & Modern America (1980 - Present)

### The Exam
The exam lasts 3 hours and 15 minutes, which is probably more like 3.5 - 4 hours depending on your school's test day procedures. It's broken up into 2 sections, with a 10 minute break in-between.

**Section 1:**

55 Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs)
- 55 minutes
- 40% of your score
- Pick the best answer out of 4 choices
- All time periods
- All stimulus based; primary and secondary sources

1 minute break

3 Short Answer Questions (SAQs)
- 40 minutes
- 20% of your score
- Write 3 sentences for each part A, B, and C of each question
- #1: 1-2 secondary sources, between 1754 and 1980
- #2: 1 primary source, between 1754 and 1980
- #3: No source, between 1491 and 1877
- #4: No source, between 1865 and 2001
- You must do #1 and #2
- You pick between #3 and #4

**10 Minute Break:**

Grab some chips or some water, and get ready for a whole lot of typing.

**Section 2:**

1 Document Based Question (DBQ)
- Recommended 60 minutes including 15 minute reading time
- 25% of your score
- Write an argumentative essay using evidence
- Between 1754 and 1980
- 7 primary or secondary sources

1 Long Essay Question (LEQ)
- Recommended 45 minutes
- 15% of your score
- Write an argumentative essay using evidence
- No sources
- #1: Between 1491 and 1800
- #2: Between 1800 and 1898
- #3: Between 1890 and 2001
- Pick #1, #2, or #3


## Resources I Used

list and brief explanation
- america's history textbook
- heimler my glorious king
- amsco
- khan academy
- that one active recall website
- knowt reviews
- the textbook I have upstairs
- old released questions
- chatgpt my goat
- hamilton musical lol

## My Study Plan
I studied for 50+ hours for the APUSH exam, which was probably overkill. However, it paid off. Here is my exact study schedule, broken down by unit.

### Overall Breakdown
I split up the hours I spent dedicated to each unit relative to how well I understood it and how much it was tested on the exam. I spent only 1.5 hours on Unit 1, but spent 6 hours on Unit 3.

I split each unit up by starting with reading the entirety of the AMSCO textbook chapter for it. Then, I would test my knowledge with MCQs on Khan Academy. Finally, I would apply it by doing as many writing prompts from the AMSCO textbook as I could in the time limit. I wrote them all on a Google Doc, and I used ChatGPT to grade my writing and evaulate my strengths and weaknesses.

ADD AN IMAGE OF THE WORD COUNT HERE

### Studying Per Unit:
**Unit 1:** 1.5 hours
- 30 minutes of AMSCO review
- 30 minutes of Khan Academy MCQ
- 30 minutes of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 2:** 2 hours
- 1 hour of AMSCO review
- 30 minutes of Khan Academy MCQ
- 1 hour of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 3:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 4:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 5:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 6:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 7:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 8:** 6 hours
- 2.5 hours of AMSCO review
- 1.5 hours of Khan Academy MCQ
- 2 hours of AMSCO writing practice

**Unit 9:** 2.5 hours
- 1 hour of AMSCO review
- 30 minutes of Khan Academy MCQ
- 1 hour of AMSCO writing practice

### Final Review
The last 10 days before the AP exam were a bit stressful. I was nervous for my first big exam, and 

## big tips
dbq yap and stuff, tea, breakdown the rubric

## the curve

## outro
exam day just trust yourself fr cramming wont help
